# Incident: 2025-12-01 13-00-45

## Summary


Between the hour of 11:36 and 12:44 on 2025-12-01, 0 user encountered failures to fulfill order at factory. The event was triggered by an outage with the external JWT Pizza Factory at approximately 11:33-11:37 PM. This was caused as result of a request to initiate chaos testing.

The event was detected by currently implemented health checks in the system. The team started working on the event by following a resolution link to pizza factory to begin making pizzas again. This critical incident affected 0% of users.

There was no further impact to the system. And the issue was only raised as a result of current health checks implemented in the system in relation to this incident.


## Detection


This incident was detected immediately when the 'Pizza Purchases Alert' was triggered and the developer Melvin Whitaker was paged.

However, the developer was alerted during travel and the alert was only sent through email, so the alert wasn't acknowledged by him until 12:35-12:40 PM.

To further improve our alerting system and speed up the time to resolution for incidents such as these, extra onCall measures and alerting to enable multiple points of contact will be set up by the developer Melvin Whitaker so that a quicker acknowledgement and resolution can be made by the developer.


## Impact


For 1hr 8 minutes between 11:36 MST and 12:44 MST on 12/02/25, zero of our users experienced this incident.

This incident affected no customers (100% OF JWT Pizza Users), who experienced errors attempting to order pizzas.

No support tickets or social media posts were submitted.


## Timeline


All times are UTC.

- _03:05_ - Request to initiate chaos testing
- _15:05_ - Several health system checks initiated and in healthy state
- _18:36_ - The 'Pizza Purchases' health system check started detecting pizza purchase failures and entered a _pending state_.
- _18:37_ - The 'Pizza Purchases alert' was triggered and the developer Melvin Whitaker was paged.
- _19:40_ - The developer acknowledges the receipt of the alarm and began investigating the cause of the issue
- _19:43_ - The root cause of the issue was found using logs and a resolution link was followed to end chaos testing
- _19:44_ - The 'Pizza Purchases' health system check reported okay and all health system checks report healthy state. Incident is resolved


## Response


After receiving a page at 11:37 MST, on-call engineer and developer Melvin Whitaker came online at 12:40 MST in Grafana.

After looking through the logs and with self-testing, the cause of the incident was discovered shortly thereafter and remedied at 12:43 MST.


## Root cause


The factory refused to make pizzas and instead sent a link to resolve the issue and start making pizzas again.


## Resolution


The link for resolving the incident was discovered, and by inputting the link into the browser, the factory resumed making pizzas like normal.


## Prevention


As the cause of the issue is a result of a third-party software not functioning as intended, no real prevention strategy can be implemented in a feasible manner.

An attempt could be made to move away from using this third-party software and implement an internal service; however, this was a request to initiate chaos testing and this third-party software has performed our needs sufficiently enough as is without much issue, so we will not make an internal implementation and continue to use the pizza-factory third-party software moving forward until further notice.


## Action items


Enhancement of the current alerting system to enable faster detection and resolution times for these incidents.

